
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS: The Nexus: Where Science Meets Society&quot;|
|date: 2005-12-10|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
This title is of high interest to me because it is the problem we often encounter in Environmental Mangement. Ms. Jackson's address, though highly US-centrism, did reveal some perspectives and insights on science and the society.<br/><br/>The article starts with a retrospective view of the role of science in the history of human development. Then it identified several trends in the recent decades: multidisciplinary, globalization (and national security), decline of workforce and educated scientists, multiple voices or information overload. Scientific innovasion has a better prospect today than any time before, but the challenges of the trends must be answered. More investment on research and education, and more consideration on attract, nourish and raise talents, to ensure national security and interest in the new century.<br/><br/>This is applicable to other countries. However, what strikes me most is that in this information age, voices are easily drown in the turbulent ocean of information. A scientist today face the crisis that his opinions may not be heard and accepted as easily as 30 years ago. Science must address this difficulty to make sure people get valuable information. Or the value of science is lost in such a &quot;Nexus&quot; of interweaving interests and information. It could be replaced by badly proved information which can direct the society to a worse direction. (Though science itself is not necessarily good and correct, most of the time it is helpful in informing policies.)<br/><br/>It is unavoidable that scientists are more likely to 'encounter' the society today because of their research and the interaction of scientific and lay people. The trend calls for science that is more holistic, flexible, adaptable, informing and trustable.
</div>


