
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;[tusea,kekao] The organisation of interview, record, analysis and final|
|report&quot;|
|date: 2005-06-17|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
Now we have two topics, 14 people and a few sorts of interviewees. The method for interviewing and writing reports must be detailed.<br/><br/>The four interviewing groups will each be led by a member who is more familiar to the research goal, and go to different interviewees. One member in the group will be in charge of material recording. Other members will be his aid. The record is linear, as the questions and answers come out. Both Q &amp; A should be recorded.<br/><br/>Quality Control in interviewing: (need more discussion)<br/><br/>Archiving interview log: When get back to the lodge, each group tidy up their logs, find what is left and eliminate paradoxes. Then they should give the tidy log to the team's recorder, with the information of interviewer/interviewee, time and place of the interview, and keywords for reference. Later in the team meeting, each group will have one representative tell others about their interview, especially interesting problems found or solved. Team recorder should have clear record of the meeting.<br/><br/>After returning to Beijing, team recorder should establish a database of all interview logs and materials we found. All entries should be able to reference by keywords, interviewee and time/place.<br/><br/>Composing final report: Team members are assigned to an article from a certain aspect of the research topic. Who is in charge of the topic should write an overview of the topic. In the interview team members should gradually find what interests them most and make a choice of aspects. Some proses can be written when team members are at home.
</div>


