
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;How to avoid a gloomy, hot future?&quot;|
|date: 2005-11-02|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
We have no direct proof that the global climate is becoming warmer, because of the nature of science. We cannot 'prove' anything, but can only 'disprove' something. Therefore we cannot assert that the temperature is rising from recent years' measures. However, it is highly probable that this year's unusually frequent hurricanes and floods are due to climate change.<br/><br/>To one not so optimistic (i.e. me), what happened in 2005 could hint those scene in those movies like Mad Max, Water World, and A. I.. The end of fossil fuel production is not very far. Global warming is influencing everyone.<br/><br/>Is it really happening? I think, yes. If we do nothing.<br/><br/>A G8 plus meeting is being held in London in these days. British PM Blair chose climate change and countermeasure as a central topic. He is quite right. No matter what intention he has. G. Bush is talking about technology saving the world from greenhouse gas. Blair seems recognise that science can tackle global warming. But if no protocol is given, who will use the technology to control emission? Tech costs money. And people do not want to lose money unless it is asked by law or policy.<br/><br/>The European effort on controlling GHG emission would serve as a critical example. If it is not successful enough, developing countries such as China will not be on board (maybe a Chinese version Katrina will change policy makers' mind). Unfortunately, in the last 2 years the carbon dioxide emission in UK has rised, possibly due to gas shortage and changing back to coal in power generation. It is difficult to reach the limit set by Kyoto Protocol before 2012.<br/><br/>So, China and other rapid developing countries' attitude must be ensured. We hope that no matter how well EC did, all countries will be able to work together to fight global warming and solve energy problem. Even if you are really lucky, you have prosperous economy, and only other countries suffer from the GHG you emitted, you will soon find this all meaningless because other countries are collapsing and no one would buy your products and services. This is globalisation. We all bear the same fate. It depends on our action.
</div>


