
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Witness history  --  or become history?&quot;|
|date: 2005-12-04|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
Yesterday there was large scale demonstration in London, Montreal, Washington and cities in other 30 countries. Over 100,000 people took part in it. The demonstration was timed to press the US and UK government to set effective agenda on cutting GHG emission.<br/><br/>As Margaret Beckett, the Secretary of State for the Environment said, the conference in Montreal is not very possible to achieve more than making the issue forward. Not much consensus can be achieved with the attitude of US government. The developing countries are doing something to cut CO2 emission. Now we must wait and see how US response.<br/><br/>The prospect is not optimistic. The change of global climate is at a speed faster than scientists predicted. Therefore this year's demonstration will be of historical meaning, no matter if it can push the US government forward in controlling GHG emission. Luckily the people's attitude has changed a lot since the Katrina disaster. Therefore perhaps we can expect an attitude change of the US government, too.<br/><br/>About UK PM Mr. Blair, I support his approving attitude on the issue of nuclear power -- at least it can solve the most urgent problem, and solution of nuclear waste disposal can be better expected than other low GHG emission energy sources. To what direction will he push Mr. Bush will possibly determine the coming days of mankind.
</div>


