
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Week 6: Slow, yes, but progressing&quot;|
|date: 2006-11-04|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
This week's work mainly focus on environment of Tibetan pastures, more specifically, on climatic issues on the Plateau.<br /><br />Though climate on a given area looks like a simple issue, it is not once you begin to ask questions.  My self-pointed objective on this sub-project is to understand a) what the climate(s) are like in Tibet; b) what the climates have been during the Holocene; and c) what are the implications of the historical and current climate on the pastoralism in the area?  Short-term climate events are also worth studying, which I have been doing since Thursday.<br /><br />A main problem encountered during the literature review is very few materials on Tibet environment topic, and sadly a large unaccessible proportion in them.  Curse the Chinese database providers such as VIP and Wanfang Data!  There are many articles on climate change and Holocene climate histories out there, but I think their effects on pastoralism is what I need to independently and critically analyse.<br /><br />The discussion with my supervisors are constructive, which I mentioned in <a href="http://snakehsu.info/blog/?p=280">another entry of the log</a>.  One thing I strangely forgot to do is to draw a map of Tibet and my research area so that my audiences will understand the context better.  In the following 2 or 3 weeks I will finish this sub-project and a simple map as well.
</div>
<h2>
Comments
</h2>
<div class='comments'>
<div class='comment'>
<div class='author'>
wenmang.k
</div>
<div class='content'>
已阅。<br>举手：Wanfang Data是啥
</div>
</div>
<div class='comment'>
<div class='author'>
Snake
</div>
<div class='content'>
传说中的万方数据库啊。
</div>
</div>
</div>


