
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;China SEPA regulates public participation&quot;|
|date: 2006-05-13|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
<a href="http://www.nanfangdaily.com.cn/zm/20060511/xw/tb/200605110012.asp">以公民环境权治本才会山清水秀</a><br/><br/>Recently China State Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) started drafting a new regulation on &quot;public participating environment protection&quot;.  It is considered as one leap towards more extensive public participation because the drafting is carried out by an academic institution instead of SEPA itself.  A number of NGOs, such as <a href="http://www.fon.org.cn/">Friends of Nature</a> also participated in the drafting process. <br/><br/>This event is considered as a milestone by the commentor's of Nanfang Weekend, one influencial newspaper in China.  This is the first time public opinions thoroughly involved in the making of a regulation. The regulation itself is also expected to empower the public, so they can play as a stakeholder along with other interest groups.  <br/><br/>The comment also state that the regulation ensures the public's &quot;right of environment&quot;, which should be considered as a part of human right.   However, I do not think such right can be protected without clear statement of personal and public property rights.  The public can argue that they are being harmed by degrading environment but if they do not have certain claim over their surroundings, they are not likely to find subjects with responsibility to mitigate environment impacts and actions can hardly be implemented.
</div>


