
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;BBC NEWS &#124; UK &#124; World Cup site threat to swallows&quot;|
|date: 2006-11-16|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
<a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6153104.stm">BBC NEWS &#124; UK &#124; World Cup site threat to swallows</a><br /><br />This is an interesting environmental management case.  It is special in that it involves international affairs.  Bird migration may be the link of friendship between countries -- as well as of disputes.  In my memory there is no international law regulating bird conservation.  Swallows are not rare or endangered species (yet).  The question now is, should South African pay the bill for the conservation of a bird which is liked by Britons?<br /><br />In South Africa Environmental Impact Assessment is mandatory for almost every construction project<sup>[1]</sup>.  Why EIA did not address such a threat to over 3 million swallows currently nested in the future site of World Cup matches?  My guess is that the public did not consider the swallows important; the local authority would not pay for &quot;British swallows&quot; either.  Apparently there is no pressure group claiming the interest of swallows.  When choosing site for such project, it is the competition of interest groups determining the final choice.<br /><br />Now there is RSPB standing out for the interest of swallows (perhaps Briton's as well).  How much weight can they put on the South African official's decision?  I noticed that South Africa is one of the 53 Commonwealth countries.  Does this organisation play its role on environmental issues?  Maybe time can tell.<br /><br />(Strange, RSPB has not put out this issue on <a target="_blank" href="http://www.rspb.org.uk/">their website</a> when I write this post.)<br /><br />
<hr width="100%" size="2" />
[1] Environmental Impact Assessment in Thailand, South Africa, Malaysia and Denmark: working report. <a target="_blank" href="http://www.ruc.dk/upload/application/pdf/9c4d310e/workingpaper1.pdf">http://www.ruc.dk/upload/application/pdf/9c4d310e/workingpaper1.pdf</a>
</div>
<h2>
Comments
</h2>
<div class='comments'>
<div class='comment'>
<div class='author'>
wenmang.k
</div>
<div class='content'>
迁徙的鸟很不错，以后咱们拍一个迁徙的羊
</div>
</div>
</div>


