
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;An environmental picture in Tibet&quot;|
|date: 2006-11-03|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
Just now I had a talk with my supervisors.  Just like what Gandolf told Frodo, my first project is praised.  The following work will be a much larger project because there are many topics to explore.  However, it was pointed out that environmental issues, especially climatic ones, are very necessary for understanding of the historical and present problems in Tibet.<br /><br />The work in next phase will be to write a detailed review of climate issues in Tibet.  What need to be included, I think, are as following:<br /><br/>
<ul>
<br/>
<li>
Holocene climate and geology/topography changes
</li>
<br/>
<li>
Environmental history, including important climatic events
</li>
<br/>
<li>
The impact of human initiatives on the environment
</li>
<br/>
<li>
How environmental factors form and impact pastoralism
</li>
<br/>
</ul>
<br/>Other issues raised during the meeting include making maps for the research area, finding interest groups working there, globalisation's effects on local economy, seeking oral history from grassroots and gov/expert points of view.  One interesting thing is that African countries such as Botswana has undergone similar &quot;modernisation&quot; process in 1970s, and the consequences are being revealed, which may be an interesting case study and comparison for my thesis.
</div>
<h2>
Comments
</h2>
<div class='comments'>
<div class='comment'>
<div class='author'>
Boots &amp; Quill » Week 6: Slow, yes, but progressing
</div>
<div class='content'>
[...] The discussion with my supervisors are constructive, which I mentioned in another entry of the log.  One thing I strangely forgot to do is to draw a map of Tibet and my research area so that my audiences will understand the context better.  In the following 2 or 3 weeks I will finish this sub-project and a simple map as well. del.icio.us this! [...]
</div>
</div>
<div class='comment'>
<div class='author'>
wenmang.k
</div>
<div class='content'>
已阅
</div>
</div>
</div>


