
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;This is what I call failure&quot;|
|date: 2007-10-29|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
And it is outrageous!<br/><br/>Zhong, Li, and Peng, “Analysis on the Status of Farmers, Agriculture and Countryside, and Development Strategies and Measures in Tibet Autonomous Region,” <span style="font-style: italic;">Journal of Mountain Science</span> 1, no. 2 (2004): 175--182.<br/><br/>One of the worst research articles I have ever read. People doing research on Tibet should never be an armchair researcher. There are always needs to go into the field. However, this article is a typical armchair work. Everything the authors have is but statistical data. And merely from this they can pretend to make &quot;scientific decisions&quot; for people who really have to make a living in Tibet. These workers (I am very reluctant to call them &quot;scientists&quot;) are irresponsible and do not know Tibet at all.<br/><br/>For example, they do not know what kind of agriculture the ecosystem in Tibet can support. They naively think that Tibetan chicken eggs and pork &quot;ha[ve] a good market&quot; in the competition with products from outside. And they think they can improve grassland productivity <em>in Tibet</em> just by thinking.<br/><br/>Anyone with ideas about how northern Tibet agriculture system works will not put the problem so lightly. And these researchers are supposed to know.<br/><br/>The cause of the problem seems to be the inadequate pressure to publish, as well as the ill-formed evaluation system which is based on the quantity of publications rather than quality. Of course the lame peer review system of the journal also helped.<br/><br/>This, I am afraid, is the state of China's Tibetan studies.<br/><br/>Wake up, you lazy bones. You have the privilege to study in Tibet, without so much fuss as I and my foreign colleagues had. You should really go down there and hear what the people and the land have to say!<br/>
<p class="poweredbyperformancing">
Powered by <a href="http://scribefire.com/">ScribeFire</a>.
</p></div>


