
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Week 15: Non-academic but crucial&quot;|
|date: 2007-01-13|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
This week's major activity is not very &quot;academic&quot;, I should say.  I spent most of the time trying to find suitable fund providers and write a proposal that is persuading enough.  <br /><br />The proposal was very different from the one I used to apply for the opportunity to study in my university.  This time I had better considerations about the project, the methodology, outcomes, and possible limitations.  Writing the proposal also made me think more about the practicality and other issues which may make the project better.<br /><br />The search for funding was not very rewarding, compared to the time and energy I invested in it.  However when I was browsing through the grant maker's category, I realised that Chinese students have more potential funders than they know from their information sources.  If I know this from the beginning....  <br /><br />At the same time I realised that I need an ecological assessment to company my &quot;human geographical&quot; methods if I want to realise what I promised on my proposal.  Considering the time and resources limit, I think I have to turn to either secondary data or some easy-to-use assessment method (is there any?).  I need to persuade my supervisors to let me work on this topic.<br /><br />Now I feel I have a better grasp of what to expect in the field in April so I become a bit calmer.
</div>


