
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Week 14: Emerging issues&quot;|
|date: 2007-01-06|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
The main theme in this week is the coming pilot fieldtrip.  I say it's ``coming'' but it is in fact still about 3 months away.  But gosh, I have so many issues to look at during these three months.<br /><br />I somehow managed to produce a review on qualitative methodology and research design shortly after New Year's day.  But I am not contend to limit my project to pure human geography or anthropology study.  I still want to strive for a interdiscipline research, although I do recognise the difficulty to think out an integrated approach to use both qualitative and quantitative data and to make sense of the outcomes.  I think I need a quick technique which allows me to measure some ecological characteristic of the area with limited equipment and simple observation.  I just do not know if it is there.<br /><br />I have not successfully establish contact with anyone at home working on the Plateau.  I still have time for that but lack of progress is always making me nervous.<br /><br />My major task in the next week would be fund-seeking.  It is somewhat like applying for positions in a course or a research program, which involves a lot of paperwork: proposal, forms, references, etc.  I think this process would bring me some more benefit than financial support -- I can comb my mind through the preparation of the application and know more clearly what I will need when I am in the field.
</div>
<h2>
Comments
</h2>
<div class='comments'>
<div class='comment'>
<div class='author'>
wenmang.k
</div>
<div class='content'>
&#64;&#64;
</div>
</div>
</div>


