
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;A better evaluation?&quot;|
|date: 2007-11-26|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
My research needs a conceptual model. At present, I think it would be desirable to have a social dimension aside of the ecological one. Therefore, in the conceptual model, I need not only links denoting the flow of nutrient and energy, but also those representing flow of ecosystem services, which can be considered as the interface between the &quot;human&quot; and the &quot;nature&quot; parts in the system.<br/><br/>But &quot;ecosystem service&quot; would be too abstract to use even in a conceptual model. A concrete, and more desirable if universal surrogate of "these services":http://www.greenfacts.org/glossary/def/ecosystem-services.htm is needed. I am very reluctant to use monetary measures as there are many values that cannot be underestimated using such an approach.<br/><br/>A search at Google Scholar gives about "200 results":http://scholar.google.com/scholar?num=50&hl=en&lr=&newwindow=1&q=%22ecosystem+service%22+surrogate&btnG=Search using keywords &quot;ecosystem services&quot; and &quot;surrogate&quot;. After a browse I cannot say that I find much enlightenment, although "this one":http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V5X-4CC7V6J-D&_user=10&_coverDate=12%2F31%2F2004&_rdoc=1&_fmt=&_orig=search&_sort=d&view=c&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=52b27906458558832f14c738d40e8a95 is interesting. Non-linearity and changes should be considered when choosing the sorrogate. But it will not do if too many factors are considered, right?<br/><br/>Biodiversity is another often (ab-)used surrogate. But it is surely not adequate for the area I am studying, as the productivity there is so limited that it can only support a relatively simple system. The only way to achieve ``diversity'' is eutrophication, not like an option.<br/><br/>Or as an alternative, the energy flow combined with monetary evaluation can be used as the measure of ecosystem service?
</div>


