
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Geeks are better adventurers?&quot;|
|date: 2008-05-04|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
Well, if going to a movie alone is pathetic, what is going to two movies in one day alone like?<br/><br/>The second movie I saw today is <em>Nim's Island</em>. I am glad to see some appealing aspects of science and scientists in this movie. Finally scientists are not busy making killing technology and being killed. And this movie manages to convey the information that &quot;if we take care of the island, the island will take care of us&quot; to the younger audience, although it is a bit too explicit for older Asian guys like me.<br/><br/>I have to say although this movie can be seen as <em>Home Alone</em> on an Island, and has some <em>Indy Jones</em> flavour and even <em>Robinson Crusoe</em>, these are not the tags I want to see. The ingredients are enough to make two separate movies: Nim the Island Defender and The Self-Improvement of Adventure Novel Writer. I am not sure which one the director would like to do better. From the perspective of a fan of Jodie Foster's performance (comical in this movie but still great), I am not satisfied to see that she went all the way to Nim just to be a companion instead of a protector.<br/><br/>The real hero in the movie of course is Nim's father. Well, now you guys can see that scientists are not necessarily weak nerds waiting to be killed by Afghanistan warlords or firearm tycoons (yes I saw <em>Iron Man</em> just now), at least ecologists can be confident, competent and always get things done. Kids need such movies to encourage them to become a scientist (turned adventurer?).
</div>


