
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Are you not Wanted?&quot;|
|date: 2010-10-16|
|comments: false|


<div class='post'>
I went to a friend's wedding today.  The bride and the bridegroom fell in love when they were both undergraduates, and it has been 8 years since then.  Needless to say, many of their classmates, including me, participated the event as guests.  We were supposed to be the selected few and the future elite of China when we got the admission from our university.  But nothing particular happened afterwards, we all become faceless clerks in some organizations that have remote relation to what we learn, and all have to work 10 hours a day just to pay our credit card bills.<br /><br />What went wrong?  I could not help thinking about those people who dropped out of school due to poor academic performance in the university.  Have they find a better way to spend their life than we do?  After all, they probably learned not to listen to everything the education system told them.  And that gives them more possibilities in life, probably?<br /><br />Now I think I am beginning to understand Wanted, the graphic novel by Mark Millar.  The institutionalized individuals are surrounding us, trying to tell us what to do and what is right.  Sometimes these advices can be helpful, but in many cases, they just make you hesitate, doubt, and fail.  One does not need to possess super power to control their life.  The important thing is to know what one wants, and ignore the distractions in the guise of &quot;for your own good&quot; that prevent you from achieving your goal.  In this way, you can one day pretty much fuck anyone you want, or die trying. <br /><br />In the novel, the point where Wesley proved that he know what he wanted was not when he walked out of his miserable clerk life, but the moment after his most beloved and respected father told him to become the best gunslinger in the world, he still can seriously consider defying Fox and his father and return to the old life.  The strongest super power is the ability to make decision for oneself and bear the consequences, and it is free will at its best.  And you do not need to be special to have that power.
</div>


