
|date: '2011-11-22 22:47:59'|
|layout: post|
|slug: sopa-and-its-danger|
|status: publish|
|title: SOPA and its danger|
|wordpress&#95;id: '128'|
|categories:|
|- 议|
|tags:|
|- censorship|
|- piracy|
|- rights|


I have left my email on "Avaaz":http://avaaz.org/ last time I joined an online pledge for rainforest conservation or something.  A few days ago, I received another of their campaign emails.  Generally I just ignore them -- you simply cannot fight for every cause, but this one is about saving the Internet?  I followed the link and find that the US Congress are discussing about this act called "Stop Online Piracy Act":http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bill.xpd?bill=h112-3261, and once it passes, people who claim copyright to an article of creative nature, be it text, audio or video, can identify websites which make these materials available online without their permissions, and have them blocked by the means of stopping DNS resolving.

The supporters of the bill include, most notably, Business Software Alliance, RIAA and MPAA.  They think that they have lost much due to &quot;online piracy&quot; and would like to see the channels of &quot;piracy&quot; cut.  But from most Internet users' perspective, the act is giving these big business players an immense power, which is determining what contents people can access on the Internet and what websites can continue to exist.  In the information age, arguably this is a power comparable to military might, a stick wielded by big companies towards people.

The proprietary software vendors, music tycoons and movie moguls are used to this logic of thinking: I should be the only source of tools, information and entertainment, and only I can profit from distributing software, text, audio and video.  This idea may be forgivable in the industrial age, but is becoming more and more ridiculous in an age when information and garbage can be duplicated and distributed almost without any marginal cost.  It is especially ridiculous when they act out of this kind of thinking.

Laurence Lessig has already made it very clear that we create new things by deriving on other people's work.  We learn from others, mash up things they made, and create things that we can call our own.  With an act like SOPA, essentially any kind of expression and voice can be suppressed, as nothing is completely original.  One can imagine how this act can be abused by powerful corporates to mute individuals who want to criticize them.  And innovation will be threatened instead of encouraged, as no one dare put their work online, who knows how the lawyers of RIAA and MPAA will pick a paragraph, a frame, or a loop and claim it their &quot;intellectual property&quot;.

Ultimately, this may be what these moguls want: that the right to invent and create is firmly grabbed in their hands, people have no share whatsoever.  And then they have a monopoly on everything that matters these days, be it ideas, creative works, information to save lives, or a good laugh.

Even then, they themselves will not benefit as much as they would like to.  Just like Apple and Samsung suing each other over patents in their phone devices, I can imagine AVG busy suing Kaspersky, Microsoft busy taking down Symantec's website, and Universal blocking traffic from Warner Bros.  Once they make ordinary people optionless, they will start trying to give each other a hard time, and SOPA makes copyright wars so easy and fun.

No wonder the Internet roared with pride and resolution.  After all, the vitality of the Internet lies in its crowd-sourced nature.  We cannot go back to the era when only studios can make movies and only publishers can publish.  BSA, RIAA and MPAA will then find that their products reach much fewer people, and receive far less attention, now that the Internet is gone.  An Internet without draconian limits is good for both people and business, and it seems Facebook and Google know this better.

