
|layout: post|
|title: &quot;Curious format character %r&quot;|
|date: 2012-03-16 13:20|
|comments: true|
|categories:|
|- 规|
|tags:|
|- python|
|- string|


I am doing "Exercise 6":http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/ex6.html of _Learn Python the Hard Way_ today, and a part of the code is like this:

``` py Exercise 6 http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/ex6.html x = &quot;There are %d types of people.&quot; % 10 binary = &quot;binary&quot; do&#95;not = &quot;don't&quot; y = &quot;Those who know %s and those who %s.&quot; % (binary, do&#95;not)

print x print y

print &quot;I said: %r.&quot; % x print &quot;I also said: '%s'.&quot; % y ```

And the result is like this:

bc(console). $ python ex6.py
There are 10 types of people.
Those who know binary and those who don't.
I said: 'There are 10 types of people.'.
I also said: 'Those who know binary and those who don't.'.


Notice that there is a pair of quote around @%s@ on line 10, but this is not the case for @%r@ above. Yet in the result both have quote around the content of string @x@ and @y@.

Some searching leads me to a StackOverflow "question":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4480278/list-of-python-format-characters then the documentation of Python. Turns out that while @%s@ passes the value (string) to @str()@, @%r@ passes the value to @retr()@. The Python Tutorial put it like this:

{% blockquote Python Software Foundation http://docs.python.org/tutorial/inputoutput.html#fancier-output-formatting The Python Tutorial %} The str() function is meant to return representations of values which are fairly human-readable, while repr() is meant to generate representations which can be read by the interpreter (or will force a SyntaxError if there is not equivalent syntax). {% endblockquote %}

Naturally, to an interpreter, a string is not a string unless it is quoted. Probably to ensure that strings are handled properly by interpreters, @retr()@ is quite proactive at adding quotes to both ends of its argument:

bc(pycon). >>> a = 'hello world'
>>> repr(a)
"'hello world'"
>>> str(a)
'hello world'
>>> repr(repr(a))
'"\'hello world\'"'


The last input is especially interesting. The outer @repr()@ knows the difference between the string delimiter @"@ and the single quotes as part of the string. So why does it add another pair nevertheless? Why the interpreter cannot just deal with a string and its quotes?

